Our intended search engine has many obvious competitors such as google, bing and yahoo. They all serve a similar function, that is a way to provide users a way to search for content on the web. There are also more niche services such as google scholar and google books which focus on searching and indexing academic sources, typically in the pdf format. These are some of our competitors as they provide functions our intended search engine will provide. For instance, the web search engines give the user web page search functionality. This requires some form of crawling, indexing and parsing the html into searchable terms, all of which are necessary for our search engine. The more academic competitors listed above provide a similar function, however their focus is on scholarly pdfs, another feature which is required for our search engine.

One major feature the web search engines lack is a clear user submitted ranking system. The ranking system our group proposes is a totally transparent user submitted ranking system. This means that registered users have the option to leave reviews on certain web pages and the search engine will rank the results solely on this user submitted input. Another major feature the competitors lack is an intuitive way to preview the search results. We intend our search engine to have the ability to display a preview screenshot of the result on the UI when the user hovers over the result link. Finally, we intend to have strict content control by only indexing certain file uploads by privileged users rather than crawling the web for possibly dubious content.

The intended audience of our search engine is the academic community of UTM. This includes all students, instructors and teacher assistants. A scenario where our search engine will prove to be useful includes students doing searches to find academic sources, all of which have been uploaded by some authority figure(s) (ie the professor of the course). This ensures strict control and quality assurance over the content the students have access to. It also tightens the scope of content students can search from which will perhaps ease the sense of overwhelment students feel when compared to searching on google scholar. This can prove to be extremely helpful for inexperienced students who require a way to obtain relevant research material without overburdening themselves.

Some possible reasons our competitors didn't focus on this scenario is simply due to the fact that it lacks much scale. Our search engine is more like an “in house” project which only targets the UTM population. If google wished to implement a system where users had the option to construct their own niche “micro search engines”, then they can perhaps utilize some of our search engines features.
