The team consists of five students where each student is responsible for a specific task. During phase 1 of the project, the team had a few meetings and discussion. First, the team got together for the purpose of greetings and introductions. Then a Skype meeting was scheduled and tasks were assigned evenly. As each task was in progress, the team had a discussion on Skype to clear up any confusion and misconception of the project. Individuals also assisted others in case help was needed. To finalize the project, the team got together again to summarize what was done, and what needs to be improved. 

In the project, the team mainly used Skype as a main source of communication. For phase 1, the team did not use any tools to schedule and coordinate task. However, Github ticketing system - issues, is a future plan when implementations occur. During the meetings, individuals would bring up any concerns and questions and would discuss any possible solutions to conflicts. Decisions would be made as a consensus among all the team members.

The difficulty and priorities of the user stories were decided by the general agreement of the group. Priority of 1, 2 and 3 would respectively mean that the feature is essential (specified in the assignment), extra features that would help with the application, or just nice to have. The difficulty of the features were rated in a similar fashion as 1, 2 and 3 which respectively meant simple/fairly easy, hard or very hard/cannot evaluate at this time.

Throughout phase 1, disorganization was not big, but was there. Although the group held meetings/discussions every two days, it was not enough. The group members should have communicated more to push the plan on track while keeping everyone in check. In phase 2 and 3, the group will definitely use some sort of organization tool / time table scheduling application to better complete the tasks.