The objective of this project is to make an academic search engine for University of Toronto Mississauga’s students and instructors. Users of this search engine should have options to: 1.Creating an account 2.Uploading .txt, .html and .pdf files 3.Searching for the files 4.Deleting the files they uploaded before. There should be advanced search options for users such as searching only the files from instructors/students or search for files with specific extension (*.pdf/*.html/*.txt). The results of the search should be prioritized based on the most relevant one. The search engine will provide a preview for each listed file. Each user should have the permission to rate the uploaded files in the system, and also see the average rating for each file in the search results. Users also should have an option to check the history of the files they reviewed before. 

One of the key personas for this project is Alex, a 43 year old Canadian professor who teaches third and fourth year philosophy courses at University of Toronto Mississauga. He lives in Hamilton and drives to the university every morning. He has been teaching for 15 years and is very creative with his assignments. He is responsible to assign readings weekly for all of his classes. He hosts office hours every day for 2 hour before he leaves the facilities. Although not using his email on a regular basis, he does make Blackboard announcements every so often.

Annie is the other key persona for this project. Annie is an international commerce student , 18, enrolling in her first year at University of Toronto Mississauga. She came to Canada as a Visa student from Japan. English is not her first language, however, she is able to learn eagerly and quickly. She lives off campus and doesn’t have internet access unless she is in school. She enjoys reading books and going to the library. She also doesn’t have computer access at home, so she uses her mobile device as a substitute.

Following examples are some of the key scenarios for this project. Alex (the philosophy professor at UTM) found a really interesting paper on the web. He wants to first create an account in the UTM search engine and then upload the paper in the system so other students can find and read it anytime they want. The other key scenario is Annie (first year UTM student). Annie has already an account in the UTM search engine. She is not really familiar with the exam styles at UTM so she wants to search for some of the past exams in the system. 

The key principles of this project are: The provided results from the search engine should be relevant to the query provided by the user. The search engine should return the results fast. User interface of the search engine should be easy to use and understand. 
